## Response Documents

> WS: We should consider removing this section. The models are defined in the other sections. This is useless.

{{termplural(response document)}} are electronic documents generated by an {{term(agent)}} in response to a {{term(request)}} for data. 

The {{termplural(response document)}} defined in the MTConnect Standard are:

* {{term(mtconnectdevices response document)}}:  An electronic document that contains the information published by an {{term(agent)}} describing the data that can be published by one or more piece(s) of equipment.  The structure of the {{term(mtconnectdevices response document)}} document is based upon the requirements defined by the {{termplural(device information model)}}.  See {{cite(MTCPart2)}} for details on this information model.

* {{term(mtconnectstreams response document)}}:  An electronic document that contains the information published by an {{term(agent)}} that contains the data that is published by one or more piece(s) of equipment.  The structure of the {{term(mtconnectstreams response document)}} document is based upon the requirements defined by the {{term(streams information model)}}.  See {{cite(MTCPart3)}} for details on this information model.

* {{term(mtconnectassets response document)}}:  An electronic document that contains the information published by an {{term(agent)}} that **MAY** include one or more {{termplural(asset document)}}.  The structure of the {{term(mtconnectassets response document)}} document is based upon the requirements defined by the {{termplural(asset information model)}}.  See {{cite(MTCPart40)}} for details on this information model.

* {{term(mtconnecterrors response document)}}:  An electronic document that contains the information provided by an {{term(agent)}} when an error has occurred when trying to respond to a {{term(request)}} for data.  The structure of the {{term(mtconnecterrors response document)}} is based upon the requirements defined by the {{term(error information model)}}.  See {{sect(Error Information Model)}} of this document for details on this information model.

{{termplural(response document)}} may be represented by any document format supported by an {{term(agent)}}.  No matter what document format is used to structure these documents, the requirements for representing the data and other information contained in those documents **MUST** adhere to the requirements defined in the {{termplural(information model)}} associated with each document.

## Semantic Data Models

> Note: This section is redundant and useless.

A {{term(semantic data model)}} is a software engineering method for representing data where the context and the meaning of the data is constrained and fully defined.

Each of the {{termplural(semantic data model)}} defined by the MTConnect Standard include:

* The types of information that may be published by a piece of equipment,

* The meaning of that information and units of measure, if applicable,

* Structural information that defines how different pieces of information relate to each other, and

* Structural information that defines how the information relates to where the information was measured or generated by the piece of equipment.

As described previously, the content of the {{termplural(response document)}} provided by an {{term(agent)}} are each defined by a specific {{term(semantic data model)}}.  The details for the {{term(semantic data model)}} used to define each of the {{termplural(response document)}} are detail as follows:

* {{term(mtconnectdevices response document)}}:  {{latex(\citetitle{MTCPart2})}}. 

* {{term(mtconnectstreams response document)}}:  {{latex(\citetitle{MTCPart3})}}.

* {{term(mtconnectassets response document)}}:  {{latex(\citetitle{MTCPart40})}} and its sub-Parts.

* {{term(mtconnecterrors response document)}}:  {{cite(MTCPart1)}}, {{sect(Error Information Model)}}.

The MTConnect {{termplural(semantic data model)}} allows the communications of information with a full definition of the meaning and context relative to the piece of equipment.

## Request/Response Information Exchange

The transfer of information between an {{term(agent)}} and a client software application is based on a {{term(requestresponse)}} information exchange approach. A client software application requests specific information from an {{term(agent)}}. An {{term(agent)}} responds to the {{term(request)}} by publishing a {{term(response document)}}.

In normal operation, there are four types of {{termplural(mtconnect request)}} that can be issued by a client software application that will result in different {{termplural(response)}} by an {{term(agent)}}.  These {{termplural(request)}} are:

* {{term(probe request)}}-- A client software application requests the {{term(equipment metadata)}} for each piece of equipment that **MAY** publish information through an {{term(agent)}}.  The {{term(agent)}} publishes a {{term(mtconnectdevices response document)}} that contains the requested information.  A {{term(probe request)}} is represented by the term {{term(probe httprequest)}} in a {{term(request)}} from a client software application.

* {{term(current request)}} -- A client software application requests the current value for each of the data types that have been published from a piece(s) of equipment to an {{term(agent)}}.  The {{term(agent)}} publishes a {{term(mtconnectstreams response document)}} that contains the requested information.  A {{term(current request)}} is represented by the term {{term(current httprequest)}} in a {{term(request)}} from a client software application.

* {{term(sample request)}} -- A client software application requests a series of data values from the {{term(buffer)}} in an {{term(agent)}} by specifying a range of {{termplural(sequence number)}} representing that data.  The {{term(agent)}} publishes a {{term(mtconnectstreams response document)}} that contains the requested information.  A {{term(sample request)}} is represented by the term {{term(sample httprequest)}} in a {{term(request)}} from a client software application.

* {{term(asset request)}} -- A client software application requests information related to {{termplural(mtconnect asset)}} that has been published to an {{term(agent)}}.  The {{term(agent)}} publishes an {{term(mtconnectassets response document)}} that contains the requested information.  An {{term(asset request)}} is represented by the term {{term(asset httprequest)}} in a {{term(request)}} from a client software application.

> Note: If an {{term(agent)}} is unable to respond to the request for information or the request includes invalid information, the {{term(agent)}} will publish an {{term(mtconnecterrors response document)}}. See {{latex(\sect{Error Information Model})}} for information regarding {{term(error information model)}}

The specific format for the {{term(request)}} for information from an {{term(agent)}} will depend on the {{term(protocol)}} implemented as part of the {{term(requestresponse)}} information exchange mechanism deployed in a specific implementation.  See {{latex(\sect{Protocol and Messaging})}}, {{term(protocol)}} for details on implementing the {{term(requestresponse)}} information exchange.

Also, the specific format for the {{termplural(response document)}} may also be implementation dependent.   See {{latex(\sect{XML Representation of Response Documents})}} for details on the format for the {{termplural(response document)}} encoded with {{term(xml)}}.

## Accessing Information from an Agent

See {{sect(MTConnect ReST Protocol)}}
